Mustafa bouti who's the Secretary
General of the Palestinian national
initiative and a former Palestinian
information Minister joins us now from
rala we're talking about the day after
but it's really a question of how long
the day after lasts this buffer
perimeter of what around 1 kilometer uh
say the Israelis inside Gaza of course
to prevent a repeat of October the 7th
they say what's your
thought there is no military value
whatsoever of this procedure but the
real actually the real intention of this
is to shrink Gaza size we have to
remember that Gaza is only 362 square
kilometers with 2.3 million people
living there it's the most densely
populated area in the world and now the
Israelis want to cut off a big part of
it no less than 15% it would go up to
25% of that little place uh uh annexing
it practically to Israel uh and this
would be perceived only as an act of
ethnic cleansing of the whole population
that lives in this very important part
of gasa strip it is an act to destroy
also one of the most important
agricultural areas in the in the in the
place and you would be effectively next
to Israel is that the Israelis say no
one will be there there'll only be mines
in this area to prevent people crossing
and they say they need it to maintain
security yeah an nexted land would and
with mines that's what they want to do
they want to move their B forward
borders forward into Gaza destroying the
lives of the people of Gaza and that is
of course very dangerous and it should
not be accepted and it should not be
allowed add to that another important
factor in my opinion their talk about
AER zone now is a in a way a recognition
of their failure they failed in the all
their military goals they failed in
enforcing to toal ethnic cleansing of
Gaza they failed in in destroying the
resistance in Gaza they failed in
imposing their domination in the area
and their occupation uh these these
methods of thinning Gaza as the ex
foreign minister book about Cohen uh are
not going to help anybody and I think
the whole International Community must
take a very strong stand against this
violation of people's rights and of
Human Rights and of the integ of
Palestinian land and talking about the
International Community of course the
United States disagrees with the concept
of a buffer zone but Anthony blinkin the
Secretary of State saying that there may
be scope for transitional Arrangements
what does he mean by that do you
think Mr blinkin is only acting as a as
a lawyer for Israel and he's playing
games with his words when he says
transitional he means he's giving Israel
the permit to do this and the
transitional will be become permanent if
the United States was serious about its
position they would tell Israel stop
that and end it and don't do it they
would at least tell Israel to stop the
Seas to the the attack on Gaza and to
have a real serious permanent ceasefire
something that the whole world wants and
the only country that is obstructing now
is the United States of America I don't
believe Mr blinkin and I think he's
maneuvering and playing games to support
the Israeli intentions you say that if
the United States was serious about it
all they need to do is tell Israel to
stop but isn't Israel operating on its
own accord and just ignoring what
anybody else says or
thinks no they can't ignore the United
States because if the United States St
says that they should stop they will
have to stop they cannot live without
American weapons they cannot live
without American money they cannot live
without American diplomatic support the
United States is a participant
unfortunately in this war and as long as
they don't support ceasefire they become
participant in the war crimes that are
happening in Gaza it's very serious very
serious Mr bouti appreciate your time
thanks very much indeed Mustafa bouti
speaking to us there from ROM thank